---
title: "December, 2020"
date: 2021-02-17T16:57:38-05:00
author: Hongtao Hao
slug: 2020-12
draft: false
toc: true
---

## 2020-12-31

Shneiderman, B. (2018). Twin-Win Model: A human-centered approach to research success. *PNAS, 115*(50), 12590-12594.

- Some research questions are more useful than others. Research that solves a real-world problem has more impacts and should be encouraged. Good research should lead to both new knowledge and solutions to societal problems. 

>... researchers need to work with professionals who have authentic problems. 


## 2020-12-30

Finished 汪小帆. (2020)

## 2020-12-29
1. Continued with Kraemer et al. (2020)

- Is it possible that the above mentioned epidemiological patterns were due to increasing testing capacity rather than travel restrictions?

The authors of the paper introduced a binary variable of testing capacity, whose value was "low" before 2020-01-20, the date when COVID-19 was categorized as a class B notifiable disease, and "high" after 2020-01-20. Compared to the naive model (see the end of p.1 of the paper for detail regarding this model), inclusion of human mobility data from Wuhan alone led to improvements in the model's prediction for 12 provinces (among 27 provinces that reported cases through 2020-02-06). In 10 other provinces, both testing capacity and human mobility from Wuhan improved prediction. Only for Hunan did testing along contributed the most to model's prediction. Therefore, the authors concluded that although testing capacity is important, in the early stage of the epidemic, Wuhan lockdown was the most important "driver of spread" (p. 3).

I admire this work. 

2. 汪小帆. (2020). [无标度网络研究纷争: 回顾与评述](http://www.juestc.uestc.edu.cn/article/doi/10.12178/1001-0548.2020274). 电子科技大学学报, 49(4), 499-510.

PP. 1-3

## 2020-12-28

Continued with Kraemer et al. (2020)

- The volume and frequency of human movement from Wuhan to other places in China predicted the size of the early epidemic in other provinces.

- After 2020-02-01, daily case counts became less correlated with human movement from Wuhan. This indicates that variability among different places in daily case counts was more likely due to factors other than human mobility from Wuhan before the Wuhan lockdown. This also indicates that travel restrictions are important in the early phase of epidemic control, but later, the importance of other local mitigation methods increased. 

- From 2020-01-09 to 2020-01-22, variation in the epidemic's growth rate in provinces outside of Hubei was almost entirely explained by human mobility from Wuhan. After drastic control measures were taken across China, growth rates became negatively correlated with human movement from Wuhan; that is to say, provinces with more human mobility from Wuhan before the lockdown saw smaller growth rates.

- Is it possible that the above mentioned epidemiological patterns were due to increasing testing capacity rather than travel restrictions?

## 2020-12-27

1. Finished Fried et al. (2020)

People now are able to rotate their face, add makeups, turn closed eyes or mouth open, change hair style or wardrobe, change age, and produce synthetic videos. These methods allow people to experiment changing appearances, but might have negative effects such as increasing body dissatisfaction or making falsified content more prevalent on the Internet. 

2. Kraemer et al. (2020). The effect of human mobility and control measures on the COVID-19 epidemic in China. *Science, 368*(6490), 493-497.

P. 1

## 2020-12-26

Fried, O., Jacobs, J., Finkelstein, A., & Agrawala, M. (2020). Editing self-image. *Communications of the ACM, 63*(3), 70-79.

PP. 1-6

## 2020-12-25
1. Finished Sinatra et al. (2016)

2. Wang, D., Song, C., & Barabási, A. L. (2013). Quantifying long-term scientific impact. *Science, 342*(6154), 127-132.

I skimmed through it. 

## 2020-12-24
Continued with Sinatra et al. (2016)

The *Q*-model corrected the two shortcomings of the *R*-model. 

According to the Q-model:

- A paper's potential impact `$p_\alpha$` is independent of a scientist's productivity `$N_i$` and parameter `$Q_i$`, which means that there is luck behind impact. 

- High *Q* is only slightly correlated with higher *N*. 

Then the question is, what the hidden parameter of *Q* is, and what it indicates? According to the authors, *Q* is a constant ability to turn a project with randomly picked impact into high-impact. For each scientist, this ability is **a constant** (for 76% of all scientists); it does not grow with the development of career stage. 

PP. 5-7

## 2020-12-23
Continued with Sinatra et al. (2016)

So, what is the role of a scientist's ability in impact generation?

The authors first created a **Random-impact model (R-model)**. This model assumes that no matter for whom, the impact of each scientific paper is randomly chosen from the same impact distribution `$P(c_{10})$`. Then, the only difference scientists is **productivity `$N$`**: how many papers she gets published in her career. This model accurately predicts the cumulative function of `$P(\ge N^*/N)$` (Fig. 2E). However, this model has two problems:

1. If each paper's impact is randomly selected from a universal distribution of `$P(c_{10})$`, then a scientist with a higher `$N$` will be more likely to have a higher `$c^*_{10}$`, i.e., the citation of the highest impact paper. However, R-model fails to predict this. See Fig. 3C. 

2. Scientists with a higher average impact without `$c^*_{10}$` will also score higher on `$c^*_{10}$`. That is to say, high impact papers are more likely to be produced by a scientist with a constently high impact. Again, the R-model fails to predict this. See Fig. 3D. 

The authors then proposed an alternative model, **Q-model**. This model assumes that (1) as in the R-model, each paper's impact is randomly selected from a universal distribution of `$P(c_{10})$`, and (2) each scientist `$i$` has a unique value `$Q_i$` that modulates impact. `$Q_i$` is a constant throughout a scientist's career. The impact of a paper published by a scientist `$i$` is the product of `$Q_i$`, and `$p_\alpha$` randomly drawn from the distribution `$P(p)$` which is the same for all scientists .

PP. 3-4

## 2020-12-22
Continued with Sinatra et al. (2016)

- Fig. 2E: The random impact rule is futher confirmed by Fig. 2E. This figure captures the cumulative distribution of `$P(\ge N^*/N)$`, where `$N^*/N$` denotes when the highest-impact paper of a scientist occurs. The fact that it is a straight line indicates that the highest-impact factor can appear anytime within a scientist's career. 

- Fig. 2A: We can clearly see the differences in impacts across three levels impact scientists. What's the reason behind it: increasing productivity or increasing creativity? The authors again randomized the papers' impact while keeping scientists' productivity unchanged. The results for both high- and low- impact scientists remained unchanged. Therefore, differences in scientists can be better explained by productivity (see Fig. 1E)

P. 3

## 2020-12-21
Continued with Sinatra et al. (2016)

- A first look at Fig. 2D might tell us that the chance to publish the highest-impact paper drops with age. However, when the impact of papers was randomized, while keeping a scientist's productivity each year unchanged, the distribution of the timing of `$t^*$` remains almost the same. This is a very important finding, as it means that a scientist can produce her highest impact paper **anytime** in her career. 

P.3 

{{<block class="note">}}
I am not sure of whether it's only the order of a scientist's papers was randomized or that the order remains unchanged but papers' `$c_{10}$` was randomized. The authors did not make this point crystal clear. 
{{<end>}}

## 2020-12-20

Sinatra, R., Wang, D., Deville, P., Song, C., & Barabási, A. L. (2016). Quantifying the evolution of individual scientific impact. *Science, 354*(6312).

- Productivity and impact are metrics to gauge a scientist's performance. 

- Fig. 1B: Only 5% of all the scientists analyzed have at least one paper that received 200 or more citations after its publication. 

- Fig. 1C and 1E: High impact scientists are also much more productive. Medium impact scientists started with more publications than the other two groups (high and low impact). In the first three years following the first publication, medium impact scientists have more publications than the other two groups, but high impact scientists quickly catch up: it took ten more years for the medium impact scientists to have the same number of publications as high impact scientists, and the figure for low impact scientists is 40 more years. 

- For a scientist, the timing of the highest-impact paper is truely uniform within the career, meaning that he or she can do ground-breaking work anytime within his or her academic career. 

P. 2

## 2020-12-19

Zha, Y., Zhou, T., & Zhou, C. (2016). Unfolding large-scale online collaborative human dynamics. *PNAS, 113*(51), 14627-14632.

This study introduces a model that precisely fits the update history of hundreds of Wikipedia articles, which follows a double-power-law distribution. The model is based on Wikipedia but it might depict other forms of huamn collaborative ativities that involve initiations and responses, such as communications via short messages and emails. 

So What? With this model, we can better detect abnormal activities in online collaborative systems. 

## 2020-12-18

1. Spiegelhalter, D. J. (2014). [The future lies in uncertainty](http://pages.stat.wisc.edu/~wahba/stat860public/pdf3/spiegelhalter.science2014.pdf). *Science, 345*(6194), 264-265.

2. McNutt, M. (2014). [Reproducibility](https://science.sciencemag.org/content/343/6168/229.summary). *Science*.

## 2020-12-17

Finished Singh et al. (2020)

One point worth noticing is that the negative effect of suceptibility to believing in false rumors on vaccine acceptance is stronger than the possitive effect of exposure to fact-checked vaccination-related information.

## 2020-12-16

Continued with Singh et al. (2020)

### Research question

Whether (1) exposure to false rumors, (2) exposure to these false rumors' fact-checks, and (3) the perceived believability of each rumor ("believability") are related to the willingness to get vaccinated ("vaccine acceptance"). 

### Methods 

From 2020-06-18 to 2020-07-13, the study survey was promoted in five languages (English, Spanish, French, Portuguese, and Arabic) on Facebook Advertisement Platform. More than 44k Facebook users from 152 countries did the survey. The authors discarded (1) incomplete and duplicated responses, and (2) responses from countries with fewer than 30 respondents. The final dataset is over 805k responses from over 18k people in 40 countries. 

The survey was quite simple, as it only comprised of three questions:

>1. Have you seen or heard this information in the past month? 
>2. Have you ever seen an official source confirming or denying this claim?
>3. How believable does this information seem to you?

At the end of the survey, the respondents were also asked to provide demographic information, and to indicate the extent they saw the coronavirus as a threat ("perceived threat").

### Results

1. Exposure to misinformation, and perceived threat are positively related to believability. 

2. Exposure to misinformation alone is not strongly correlated with vaccine acceptance. However, the believability of false information is **negatively** correlated with vaccine acceptance. 

3. Exposure to **vaccine-related misinformation** is positively correlated with vaccination hesitancy, and the believability of false **vaccine-related rumors**. Exposure to fact-checked vaccination-related information is positively correlated with vaccine acceptance. 

4. Exposure, believability, and fact-checking of other types of false rumors are not correlated with vaccine acceptance. 

5. Perceived threat is positively correlated with vaccine acceptance. 

P. 4

## 2020-12-15

1. Finished Peterson et al. (2011)

Key takeaway: If you want to have a successful career that is long, for example, being able to publish in top journals for many times rather than just once, it's important that you make progress in the beginning of your career. 

2. Singh et al. (2020). COVID-19 Misinformation, Believability, and Vaccine Acceptance Over 40 Countries. Preprint. 

PP. 1-3

## 2020-12-14

Continued with Peterson et al. (2011)

PP. 2-4

## 2020-12-13

1. Finished Evans (2008)

Major findings: 1) Even though more journal articles published long ago became available online, scientists tend to cite more recent papers; 2) Even though more articles are becoming online, fewer journals and articles are being cited, and citation become concentrated on fewer journals and articles.

Evans (2008) explains that this might be because scholars find it easier to locate prevailing opinions if they search online. Journals and articles that scholars might skim in the print age now are overlooked, pushing the citation to newer and fewer articles. This is alarming because it indicates that as online journals become more available, scientific studies are building upon fewer, rather than more, ideas. 

2. Petersen, A. M., Jung, W. S., Yang, J. S., & Stanley, H. E. (2011). Quantitative and empirical demonstration of the Matthew effect in a study of career longevity. *PNAS, 108*(1), 18-23.

PP. 1-2

## 2020-12-12

1. Finished Wu et al. (2019)

The title of this paper well explains the main finding. One point worth noticing is that, as the authors mentioned at the end of the paper, fundings from government for individuals or small teams do not enable smaller teams to produce disruptive results. This is because small teams funded by government don't want to take the risk of entering uncharted areas. 

This paper well explains my intuition: more and more scientists, and more and more money invested in research, do not necessarily mean more ground-breaking results. Also, I don't believe large teams should always dominate the sciecne community. I also don't think it's a good idea to always promote publications with a massive number of individuals. Team work is great, but does not always produce distruptive work. 

2. Evans, J. A. (2008). Electronic publication and the narrowing of science and scholarship. *Science, 321*(5887), 395-399.

PP. 1-5

## 2020-12-11

1. Finished Simmons et al. (2011)

2. Wu, L., Wang, D., & Evans, J. A. (2019). Large teams develop and small teams disrupt science and technology. *Nature, 566*(7744), 378-382.

PP. 1-4

## 2020-12-10

Somers, J. (2018). [The scientific paper is obsolete](https://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2018/04/the-scientific-paper-is-obsolete/556676/). *The Atlantic, 4.*


## 2020-12-09

1. Ioannidis, J. P. (2005). Why most published research findings are false. *PLoS medicine, 2*(8), e124.

I skimmed through it. Couldn't understand it. 

2. Simmons, J. P., Nelson, L. D., & Simonsohn, U. (2011). False-positive psychology: Undisclosed flexibility in data collection and analysis allows presenting anything as significant. *Psychological science, 22*(11), 1359-1366.

PP. 1-6

## 2020-12-08
Bohannon, J. (2016). Who's downloading pirated papers? Everyone. *Science*. Retrieved from [https://www.sciencemag.org/news/2016/04/whos-downloading-pirated-papers-everyone](https://www.sciencemag.org/news/2016/04/whos-downloading-pirated-papers-everyone)

## 2020-12-07

1. Finihsed Fernandes et al. (2018)

Key points: the title explains everything. I love the title. 

2. Grabowicz, P. A., Ramasco, J. J., Moro, E., Pujol, J. M., & Eguiluz, V. M. (2012). Social features of online networks: The strength of intermediary ties in online social media. *PloS one, 7*(1), e29358.

## 2020-12-06

Fernandes, M., Walls, L., Munson, S., Hullman, J., & Kay, M. (2018, April). Uncertainty displays using quantile dotplots or CDFs improve transit decision-making. In *Proceedings of the 2018 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems* (pp. 1-12).

PP. 1-6

## 2020-12-05

Ai, W., Chen, R., Chen, Y., Mei, Q., & Phillips, W. (2016). Recommending teams promotes prosocial lending in online microfinance. *PNAS, 113*(52), 14944-14948.

Key questions: 

1. Which recommendations increase people to join online teams on a crowdlending platform?

2. After people join a team, will they lend more money?

Key findings:

1. Recommendation emails did increase the probability of one person to join a team;

2. People receiving an recommendation email containing location similarity explanation are more likely to join a team;

3. People are more likely to join teams that have similar location and higher status;

4. After joining a team, members lend more money in the subsequent week. 

## 2020-12-04
1. Meier, A., Gilbert, A., Börner, S., & Possler, D. (2020). Instagram Inspiration: How Upward Comparison on Social Network Sites Can Contribute to Well-Being. *Journal of Communication, 70*(5), 721-743.

Skimmed through it. Didn't like it. 

2. Hilbert, M., & Darmon, D. (2020). Large-Scale Communication is More Complex and Unpredictable with Automated Bots. *Journal of Communication, 70*(5), 670-692.

Skimmed through it. 

3. Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, C., Cheng, J., Kleinberg, J., & Lee, L. (2012, July). You had me at hello: How phrasing affects memorability. In *Proceedings of the ACL.*

>... memorable quotes consist of unusual word sequences built on common syntactic scaffolding. 

PP. 1-8

{{<block class="note">}}
Forgot about this paper (*You had me at hello*) on 2020-12-05. Finished it on 2020-12-19. 
{{<end>}}

## 2020-12-03
 
Finished Hosseinmardi et al. (2020)

Main findings:

1. Consumption of radical political news content on YouTube is smaller but more engaging than other contents, and its popularity has been rising. 

2. This consumption reflects the broader social trend, and perheps is not due to the recommendation algorithms by YouTube. 

## 2020-12-02

1. Service, R. ‘The game has changed.’ AI triumphs at solving protein structures. From [Sciencemag](https://www.sciencemag.org/news/2020/11/game-has-changed-ai-triumphs-solving-protein-structures).

2. Hosseinmardi, H., Ghasemian, A., Clauset, A., Rothschild, D. M., Mobius, M., & Watts, D. J. (2020). Evaluating the scale, growth, and origins of right-wing echo chambers on YouTube. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2011.12843.*

PP. 1-2

## 2020-12-01 (completed on 2020-12-02)

Yang, T., Majo-Vazquez, S., Nielsen, R. K., & González-Bailón, S. (2020). Exposure to news grows less fragmented with an increase in mobile access. From [https://www.pnas.org/content/117/46/28678](https://www.pnas.org/content/117/46/28678).

Key question: technologies give people more choices regarding consuming news. How does this affect the overall news consumption pattern? Do audiences become more fragmented (i.e., "audiences disperse among the higher number of choices")?

Conclusions:

1. Selective exposure exists but it does not grow in magnitude amongst increasing choices of news content.

2. The pattern and effect of consuming news on desktop are different than that of consuming news on mutiplatform, with the later reaching increasingly larger audiences, attracting more time spent on news consumption, and making audiences less fragmented. 

3. More than half of the US population access little to no news. These people might also be susceptible to misinformation. 