---
title: "November, 2020"
date: 2021-02-17T16:57:38-05:00
author: Hongtao Hao
slug: 2020-11
draft: false
toc: true
---

## 2020-11-30
1. Finished Huberman et al. (2008)

- The number of friends, rather than that of followers, more accurately reflects someone's Twitter activity. 

- A link between two users on social media like Twitter does not imply there is interaction in them. 

2. Forbush, E., & Foucault-Welles, B. (2016). Social media use and adaptation among Chinese students beginning to study in the United States. *International Journal of Intercultural Relations, 50*, 1-12.

I skimmed through it. 

## 2020-11-29
1. Finished Donoho (2015)

In the future science, a scientific paper is not the scholarship itself, but the "advertising" of the work. The scholarship will be data and codes, which, of course, are "universally citable and programmatically retrievable".

2. Huberman, B. A., Romero, D. M., & Wu, F. (2008). Social networks that matter: Twitter under the microscope. *arXiv preprint arXiv:0812.1045*.

Hypothesis: the number of contacts (followers and friends) is positively related to the intensity of Twitter activity. 

PP. 1-5

## 2020-11-28 (Completed on 2020-11-29)
Continue Donoho (2015).

PP. 10-18

## 2020-11-27
1. Blumenstock, J. E. (2008, April). Size matters: word count as a measure of quality on wikipedia. In *Proceedings of the 17th international conference on World Wide Web* (pp. 1095-1096).

This study is really fun. 

2. David Donoho (2015). [50 years of Data Science](http://courses.csail.mit.edu/18.337/2015/docs/50YearsDataScience.pdf).

PP. 1-9

## 2020-11-26
1. Finished Gilbert & Karahalios (2009)


2. Salganik et al (2020). Measuring the predictability of life outcomes with a scientific mass collaboration. *Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 117*(15), 8398-8403.

Study design:

Data about family and children were available only for waves 1-5 (from child birth to age 9) but not available yet for wave 6 (child age 15). Researcher tried to predict the results (child GPA, child grit, household eviction, household material hardship, caregive layoff, and caregiver participation in job training) of wave 6 based on the whole data for waves 1-5 and half of the data for wave 6. 

Result:

Scientists leveraging complicated machine learning algorithms could not predict those outcomes correctly. If a score of 1 means perfectly accurate, and 0 not accurate at all, the best preditions got a score of 0.2 for material hardship and child GPA, and only 0.05 for other four outcomes. Also note that a linear regression or logistic regression model with only four variables chosen by domain experts were only slightly worse than the best submission, and were much better than most of other submissions. 

>... the submissions were much better than predicting each other than predicting the truth. 


## 2020-11-25
Continued with Gilbert & Karahalios (2009)

## 2020-11-24

Gilbert, E., & Karahalios, K. (2009, April). Predicting tie strength with social media. In *Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on human factors in computing systems* (pp. 211-220).

### Key question: 

1. Can dimensions of tie strength predict tie strength? How?
2. Limitations of this model?

### Methods
Participants on Facebook answered five tie strength questions for as many friends as possible within half an hour, ending up with 2184 Facebook friendships rated. 

The five questions are: How strong is the relationship, how comfortable to ask for a loan, how helpful if looking for job, how upset if unfriended, and how important to bring friend to a new channel if need be. (See Table 2)

Independent variables: The researchers then used 74 Facebook variables (such as Wall and words in the *inbox*) to predict intensity, intimacy, duration, reciprocal services, structure, emotional support, and social distance. (See Table 1) Participants also answered questions regarding demographic ans Facebook usage on them selfies and their friends.

Dependent variables: answers from participants for the five questions mentioned above. 

PP. 1-4

## 2020-11-23

1. Finished Weng et al. (2018)

Links between people can be categorized into two types based on reciprocity: social links and informational links. 

Second result: Weak ties attracted attention as much as, or even more than strong ties. 

>... people interact along strong ties due to their social relationships, while looking for novel information through weak ties. 

2. Finished Lilian Weng's article of [*Attention? Attention!*](https://lilianweng.github.io/lil-log/2018/06/24/attention-attention.html). Couldn't understand it. 


## 2020-11-22
Weng, L., Karsai, M., Perra, N., Menczer, F., & Flammini, A. (2018). Attention on weak ties in social and communication networks. In *Complex Spreading Phenomena in Social Systems* (pp. 213-228). Springer, Cham.

Many papers on the strength of weak ties do not answer the question of whether weak ties carry **important** or **novel** information.

To answer this question, we can test whether users pay more attention to information travelled through a weak tie. But how can we measure "attention"? A reasonable proxy is the number of friends a user has in a social network. 

Result:

1. Strong tie carry more traffic, confirming that people communication more with close friends.

PP. 1-12

## 2020-11-21
Centola, D. (2019). *Influential networks. Nature human behaviour, 3*(7), 664-665.

Ordinary people, instead of influencers ("hubs), are more likely to propagate complex contagions because they offer more social reinforcement. 

## 2020-11-20
Guilbeault, D., Becker, J., & Centola, D. (2018). Social learning and partisan bias in the interpretation of climate trends. *Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 115*(39), 9714-9719.

### Central question
Does information exchange in bipartisan communication networks increase or decrease partisan bias?

### Literature
What is the drawback of previous studies: people had conversations, so that researchers could not distinguish between the effect of partisan priming, and that of opposing views. 

### Design & Procedure

Four groups:

A control group in which participants had **the same** political ideology;

Group 2, 3, and 4 are all structured social networks with an equal number of conservatives and liberals. Group 2 were only shown the average of their 4 network neighbors, without any other information exhibited. Group 3 were shown the average of their neighbors plus the logos of political parties. Group 4 were shown the average as well, along with the neighbors political identity. 

Each group provided estimates for three times. For the first round, each member estimated independently. 

In Round 2 and Round 3, the control group revised their answers independently. Group 2 revised their answers while being exposed to their neighbors' average answer. Group 3 revised their answer while bing exposed to Republican and Democratic party logo below their neighbors' average estimate. Group 4 revised their response while bing were shown the usernames, political identification, and the average of each of their four neighbors, and the average of these four neighbors' answers.

### Results
Group 2: both liberals and conservatives improved their trend accuracy, with an elimination of partisan bias in interpreting climate change data. Even conservatives in this group predicted trend significant more accurately than liberals in the control condition. 

Group 3: there was no effect of social learning, and belief polarization in Round 1 was maintained. 

Group 4: trend accuracy improved but moderate belief polarization remained. 

(Belief polarization means that liberals significantly outperformed conservatives in predicting climate change trend.) 

- Exposure to logos of political parties had a stronger effect on decreasing the impact of social learning than exposure to neighbors' political identity. 

- Both conservatives and liberals improved their prediction accuracy thanks to information exchange in networks, even when exposed to their network neighbors' political identification. 

### Robustness check
Can social learning reduce polarization in homogeneous networks (i.e., networks that not bipartisan)? Robustness tests showed that **the effect of social learning was reduced in politically homogeneous networks**: by Round 3, trend accuracy of conservatives in these echo chambers did not differ significantly from conservatives in the control condition. 

{{<block class="reminder">}}
Considering this result, instead of saying the effec of social learning was **reduced**, I think it's more accurate to say it was **removed**.
{{<end>}}

Another question is whether the effect of social learning remains if participants in Group 4 were shown individual answers rather than an average. Results showed that the effect of social learning was robust to exposure to individual responses.

{{<block class="reminder">}}
I am very puzzled by the result. It showed that the effect of social learning was eliminated in homogeneous networks, but the paper of *the wisdom of partisan crowds* showed exactly [the opposite result](/en/apad/#2020-11-16-edited-on-2020-11-19-and-2020-11-20). 
{{<end>}}

### Conclusion & suggestion
It's better to have political discussions in biparsition networks without partisan cues.

## 2020-11-19
Continue with Guilbeault, Becker, & Centola. (2018)

- Complex contagions require a critical mass to start a large-scale cascade and critical mass is dependent on network topology, nodes degree distribution, and adoption thresholds. 

New directions:

1. Ecologies of complex contagions: how several contagions interact with each other within a network and across networks. 

{{<block class="note">}}

The following were added on 2020-11-22

2. Heterogeneity of thresholds

Thresholds of contagions vary. Different people and different activities may have different thresholds. 

3. Homophily and diversity in diffusion

Identity-based diversity means one's neighbors have different characteristics. Structural diversity means one's neighbors belong to different components of the network. The first kind of diversity **reduces** the spreading of complex contagions whereas the second one **amplifies** it.

If one has too many friends, he or she might not be an ideal target of complex contagions. This is because complex contagions need multiple reinforcement. When you have too many friends, you receive fewer repeated exposure. Therefore, "clustered, homophilous networks" are conducive to complex contagions. 

  - How do people infer global structure from their local interactions?
  - How do future social media networks faciliate (or reduce?) these inferences by giving people more (or less?) information about their broader ego network?

{{<end>}}

## 2020-11-18
Continue with Guilbeault, Becker, & Centola. (2018)
- When social networks get smaller, it becomes easier to spread for simple contagions but harder for complex contagions. 
- Research in complex contagions: health, innovation, social media, and politics
- Peer characteristics, such as homophily and diversity, influenced how likely behavior changes. 
- Diffusion of innovations is characterized by complex contagions. 
  - Dynamics of adoption might be different from that of termination. 
- Which has more effects on the likelihood of spreading through social influence: the influence of the source person, or the quality of the contagion?

PP. 7-14.

## 2020-11-17
1. Continue with Becker, Porter, & Centola. (2019)

Conclusion: Homogeneous networks do not necessarily lead to polarization. In fact, polarization is decreased and accuracy increased. 

Then why do we still have polarized public opinions? This is because popular social media are centralized networks, which make influencers able to exert disproportional effects on other people in the network. 

Future directions: 
- Any other reasons why "echo chambers" and polarization coexist in reality? 
- Is it possible to replicate this study in real-life networks? For example, in Facebook or Twitter, where information exchange is not limited to numeric estimates?
- How could we eliminate, or at least reduce the effects of influencers in a network, if ever possible? 

2. Guilbeault, Becker, & Centola. (2018). Complex contagions: A decade in review. In *Complex spreading phenomena in social systems* (pp. 3-25). Springer, Cham.

PP. 1-7

## 2020-11-16 (Edited on 2020-11-19 and 2020-11-20)
Continue with Becker, Porter, & Centola. (2019)

Results of Experiment 1: Information exchange in homogeneous networks increased accuracy for both party memebers and decreased belief polarization. 

Individual learning (being able to edit their answers in Round 2 and 3) was not the reason for increased accuracy because **the decrease in truth-centered mean (absolute distance from the mean) in the social group was significantly larger than that in the control group**. Therefore, the change should be attributed to information from others. 

Another possible reason is that the increased accuracy for groups as a whole obscured the decreased accuracy at an individual level, for example, when the standard deviation of truth-centered mean in a group increased. Results showed that for social groups, the standard deviation of responses in Round 3 was significantly smaller than that in Round 1. This change did not occur in the control group, indicating that **similarity within social groups increased**. 


**Replication study design** has some differences from Experiment 1:

1. More controversial questions;
2. Participants were required to confirm their political preference before participating in the study;
3. The experiment interface included an image of an elephant and a donkey;
4. The answer from four other connected participants were accompanied by their political orientation;
5. Subjects knew that they were participating in a study related to "Politics Challenge". 

Items 2 - 5 were partisan primes intended to "enhance the effects of partisan bias on social information processing" (p. 4).

Results of the replication study: same as in Experiment 1, social learning increased participants' answer accuracy for both Democrats and Republicans. Participants within each group became more similar over time. 

So, 

>... social learning is robust to partisan priming for both group-level improvement and individual improvement. 

But how about the difference between Democrats and Republicans? The above results showed "within group" changes but not between group changes. Results showed that between-group similarity also increased for participants in the social condition (37% for Experiment 1 and 46% for the replication study), which means that polarization decreased. 

**To recap**: social information exchange within homogeneous networks helped people make more accurate estimates. Similarity within and between groups increased, indicating that people within social groups got similar, and that polarization diminished. And this result withstood partisan priming. 

My question: Will the result stay the same if information exchange is not confined to numeric estimates? Why don't we allow people to chat? Is it because of lack of technical support or that there is theoretical consideration against it?

## 2020-11-15
Becker, Porter, & Centola. (2019). The wisdom of partisan crowds. *Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 116*(22), 10717-10722.

**Aim**: to see whether there is "wisdom of crowds" in politically homogeneous networks. 

**Experiment design**: 

Participants were randomly assigned to two conditions: control condition vs social condition. They were asked to provide an answer to a question for three times (rounds):

- Participants in the control condition provided the answer independently for three times. 

- Those in the social condition answered independently in Round 1. In Round 2, they were shown the average answer of four other participants connected to them in a social network and then updated their answer. In Round 3, they were shown the average of the updated answers of four other participants connected to them (same in Round 2) and provided a final answer to the question. 

- A network consists of 35 participants who shared the same political orientation (either Democrats or Republicans). Participants in the network **did not** know that other people in the network had the same partisan preference as theirs. 

- The researchers tested four question. Each question was answered by 3 network groups and 1 control group for each political party. 

## 2020-11-14
Continue with Popp, T. (2019)

The experiment comparing the effects of two different network structures (clustered vs random) on the behavior spread was concluded in my [earlier post](/en/apad/#2020-09-12).

Another experiment involves an 11-week fitness initiative among 800 graduate students at Penn. The experiment consisted of four groups:
  1. Group 1: Control group. Participants were allowed to sign up for fitness classes through an online portal. 
  2. Group 2: Same as the control group, but participants were also divided into groups based on their similarities. On the online portal, class attendance of anonymized "health buddies" was displayed. Communication with each was not possible.
  3. Group 3: Access to the online portal + groups based on similarities + communication between health buddies
  4. Group 4: Conditions in Group 3 with scores of other groups displayed on the portal. 

In Group 1 and 2, individuals completing the most classes were promised to get monetary rewards. In Group 3 and 4, health buddy groups completing the most classes got the monetary rewards. 

Results: 1). Exercise rate in group 2 & 4 were much higher; 2). Group 3 did worse than the control group. 

## 2020-11-13
Popp, T. (2019). The Virality Paradox. *The Pennsylvania Gazette*. Retrieved from [https://ndg.asc.upenn.edu/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Virality-Paradox.pdf](https://ndg.asc.upenn.edu/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Virality-Paradox.pdf)

- Even without digital tools to communicate with each other, rebel activities became more widespread in Syria. This is surprising because without telecommunication, Syrian rebels lost long ties that bridge groups far away from each other. That is, they had to rely on face-to-face communication to coordinate. How did it happen? When you get to understand that the way behaviors spread is different from that information diffuses, the answer will become clearer.

- Information, messages, and ideas spread like epidemic whereas human behaviors don't. Contagions can be classified into two types: simple and complex. A single contact can start a simple contagion, but won't do the same for complex contagions, which involve efforts and costs, and require confirmation or reinforcement from multiple sources. 

- Long ties are enough for simple contagions whereas complex contagions favor wide ties. How wide should a tie be for a behavior to spread varies. If reputation is at stake, the threshold will be higher. That's where complex contagions are very different from simple ones. In simple contagions, hubs get infected early and then it spreads the infections to many others. In a complex contagion, however, hubs usually have reputation at stake, so they are less, rather than more, likely to get infected. 

## 2020-11-12
Finished Guilbeault & Centola. (2020)

>... allowing smokers and nonsmokers to exchange views while aware of each other's smoking status effectively reduced bias both in their evaluation of health risks, and in their beliefs about each other's capacity to accurately interpret scientific data about the health risks of tabaco use. 

An interesting finding in this study is that after interacting with each other in social networks (which was limited to numeric estimates in the study), smokers and nonsmokers did not differ significantly in their perceptions of smokers' ability to understand health information associated with smoking. This means that biases were reduced. 

## 2020-11-11
Continue with Guilbeault & Centola. (2020)

Study design: 

1,600 people were recruited via Amazon’s Mechanical Turk. There are 10 independent trials in the experiment. Each trial involves 160 participants who were randomly assigned to the following three groups:

1. Control group: 40 smokers / 40 non-smokers, so 80 people in each trail. 

2. Anonymous network group: 40 people (20 smokers and 20 nonsmokers) were embedded into a random social network that is decentralized and anonymous.

3. Informative network group: 40 people (20 smokers and 20 nonsmokers) were put into a social network where they could see the usernames and the smoking status of their four network neighbors. 

Procedure: 

Participants were shown an [anti-smoking advertisement](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article/figure?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0227813.g002) and were asked to estimate the health risk of smoking by answering this question: How many people (in millions) are predicted to die from tobacco use in developed countries, in 2030? 

Participants were incentivized by monetary reward awarded based on the accuracy of their final answer. Changes in answers' accuracy were measured by the difference between Round 1 and Round 3. 

- Round 1: Participants in all group provided the answer independently. 

- Round 2: Group 1 revised their estimates with independent reflection. Group 2 were shown the average response of their contacts and then revised their estimates. Group 3 were also shown the average response by their four contacts. They were also shown the usernames and the smoking status of their contacts. 

- Round 3: Same as in Round 2. 

Results:

- In Round 1, both smokers and nonsmokers were equaly inaccurate at estimating the health risk of smoking;
- No significant improvement in estimate accuracy in the control group. 
- The decrease in estimate error in group 2 was significantly greater than both smoker and nonsmokers in the control group;
- The decrease in estimate error in group 3 was significantly greater than group 2. Specifically, this decrease is ten times greater than both smoker and nonsmoker in the control group. 


## 2020-11-10
Guilbeault, D., & Centola, D. (2020). Networked collective intelligence improves dissemination of scientific information regarding smoking risks. *Plos one, 15*(2), e0227813.

PP. 1-6

## 2020-11-09

Centola (2020). Why Social Media Makes Us More Polarized and How to Fix It. Retrieved from [https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/why-social-media-makes-us-more-polarized-and-how-to-fix-it/](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/why-social-media-makes-us-more-polarized-and-how-to-fix-it/).

>The more equity in people's social networks, the less biased and more informed groups will become--even when those groups start off with highly partisan opinions. 

- We believed that if we are put in a group consists of like-minded people (so called "echo chambers"), we probably won't develop ideas that are in the opposite side of the spectrum. However, two social media experiments found the opposite results. In a study, Democrats and Republicans were put into "echo chambers", and discussed polarizing issues such as gun control, unemployment rate, and immigration. Both groups ended up moving toward a more moderate view of the topics. 

- In another study, smokers and nonsmokers estimated the risks of cigarette smoking. After the study, both groups had a more accurate understanding of the topic, and a higher opinion of the other group.

- Social media of our time exacerbates rather than eradicates partisan bias, because it's centralized, rather than egalitarian. In a centralized network, influencers filter or even block information. For example, if an influencer spreads a piece of wrong information, it might end up becoming an entrenched false belief in the whole community, whereas in an egalitarian network, each person has an equal say, and ideas are weighed by its own quality rather than the influence of the people behind them. 

## 2020-11-08
1. Finished Salehi & Bernstein (2018)

This paper is a little bit too long. I skimmed through the last 2/3 of it. 

2. Ahn, Y. Y., Ahnert, S. E., Bagrow, J. P., & Barabási, A. L. (2011). Flavor network and the principles of food pairing. *Scientific reports, 1,* 196.

Main Takeaway: North American and European cuisine tends to combine ingredients with shared flavor but East Asian dishes don't. 

## 2020-11-07
Continue with Salehi & Bernstein (2018)

- To boost cooperative work, intermix people, not ideas. 

PP. 1-10

## 2020-11-06
1. Finished Ahn et al. (2007) 

The second half of the paper is difficult for me, so I skimmed through it. 

2. Schich et al. (2014). A network framework of cultural history. *Science, 345*(6196), 558-562.

I skimmed through it. 

3. Salehi, N., & Bernstein, M. S. (2018). Hive: Collective design through network rotation. *Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction, 2*(CSCW), 1-26.

P. 1.

## 2020-11-05
Continue with Ahn et al. (2007)

It's insightful to examine the distribution of clustering coefficient of different degrees. The clustering coefficient of degree `$ k $` is represented as `$ C(k) $`.

Degree of separation is the mean distance between two nodes.

It surprised me that Professor YY used red and green for visualizations, which is unfriendly for color blind people. 

PP. 4-9

## 2020-11-04 [Complted on 2020-11-05]
Continue with Ahn et al. (2007)

- Three network sampling methods: node sampling, link sampling, and snowball sampling. 
  - Node sampling: select randomly several nodes, and links between these selected nodes are included in the sample;
  - Link sampling: similar to node sampling, select randomly a bunch of links, and nodes attached to these links are included in the sample;
  - Randomly select a seed node and do a breath-first-search until the number of selected nodes reaches expectation. Only links between selected nodes are included in the sample. 

{{<block class="reminder">}}
I need to brush up on Breadth-First-Search. Forgot its algorithm already. 
{{<end>}}

- Power-law degree distribution usually is plotted as a CCDF (complementary cumulative probability function). Yeah, I missed this point when I first learned power-law. 

- Clustering coefficient of a node: 

`$$\frac{Number \ of \ existing \ links \ between \ its \ neighbors}{Number \ of \ all \ possible \ links \ between \ its \ neighbors}$$`

Its describes how well its neighbors are connected.

The clustering coefficient of a network is the mean of all nodes' clustering coefficient. It stands for the probability of a link between two randomly selected nodes that share a neighbor. 

## 2020-11-03
1. Finished Steegen et al. (2016)

>In a more complete analysis, the multiverse of data sets could be crossed with the multiverse of models to further reveal the multiverse of statistical results. 

This is so true. I have several thoughts about this point:

First, it shows how arbitrary the choices in data processing and model picking are, and therefore, how arbitrary the statistical results might be. When I was doing research on selfie, I also had the same feeling. When I was doing the content analysis study comparing the differences in White women's selfies on Twitter and Chinese women's selfies on Weibo, I had to made so many arbitrary choices: whether to drop an item from a construct, whether to combine items, should I use a *t* test or nonparametric test, etc. 

Second, doing multiverse analysis reporting is very methodologically challenging. I cannot imagine a Master student after attending one statistics class doing a project involving more than 200 choice combinations. 

Finally, scholars will find it more difficult to cite others' studies. Right now, it's fairly easy to cite because almost all research papers generate a **certain** result. With multiverse analysis, almost all studies will involve many **uncertainties**. This complicates how people interpret the statistical results. 

That said, statistics is about **uncertainties**. It's certainly good to show these **uncertainties**. I think the science community, and the public, should be accustomed to seeing **uncertainties** in statistical results in the coming years. 

2. Ahn, Y. Y., Han, S., Kwak, H., Moon, S., & Jeong, H. (2007, May). Analysis of topological characteristics of huge online social networking services. In *Proceedings of the 16th international conference on World Wide Web* (pp. 835-844).

PP. 1-2

## 2020-11-02

Continue with Steegen et al. (2016)

>We suggest that, if several processing choices are defensible, researchers should perform a multiverse analysis instead of a single data set analysis. 

>A multiverse analysis is a way to avoid or at least reduce the problem of selective reporting by making the fragility or robustness of the results transparent, and it helps the identification of the most consequential choices. 

>Even when confronted with only one arbitrary data processing choice, researchers should be transparent about it and reveal the sensitivity of the result to this choice. 

>Increasing transparency in reporting through a multiverse analysis is valuable, regardless of the inferential framework (frequentist or Bayesian), and regardless of the specific way uncertainty is quantified: a *p* value, an effect size, a confidence (Cumming, 2013) or credibility (Kruschke, 2010) interval, or a Bayes Factor (Morey & Rouder, 2011).

The authors argued that "preregistration or blind analysis are not useful strategies for deflating the multiverse" (p. 709). I totally agree. I am not familiar with blind analysis, so I'll just talk about preregistration. As the authors noted, even the study is preregistered, the result is still just one of the many possible choice combinations, albeit preregistered made. Therefore, the results of a preregistered study are still arbitrary, if the research involves arbitrary, or "whimsical" choices in data construction. 

The authors also talked about "model multiverse" at the end of the article. 

Something I don't understand yet in this paper:

{{< reminder >}}
When participants are excluded based on reported or computed cycle length, we do not consider next menstrual onset based on computed or reported cycle length, respectively.
{{< end >}}

{{< reminder >}}
When only one choice is clearly and unambiguously the most appropriate one, variation across this choice is uninformative. 
{{< end >}}

## 2020-11-01
Steegen, S., Tuerlinckx, F., Gelman, A., & Vanpaemel, W. (2016). Increasing transparency through a multiverse analysis. *Perspectives on Psychological Science, 11*(5), 702-712.

- Some common measures to solve the reproducibility crisis in social sciences: high power, adjusting the `$\alpha$` level, focusing on estimation not on testing, using Bayesian statistics.

- How can we increase transparency in research: pre-registration, sharing data & research materials. 

- I agree that there are so many choices to make when dealing with raw data. So the same raw data might end up becoming many different datasets ready for analysis if it was processed by many researchers. This is what multiverse is trying to do: **to list all possible (and reasonable) datasets derived from the raw data, and show all possible statistical results**. 

>A multiverse analysis displays the stability or robustness of a finding, ... across different options for all steps in data processing. (p. 703)

PP. 702-707