---
title: "January, 2021"
date: 2021-02-17T16:57:38-05:00
author: Hongtao Hao
slug: 2021-01
draft: false
toc: true
---

## 2021-01-31

McDermott, A. (2021). [Science and Culture: At the nexus of music and medicine, some see treatments for disease](https://www.pnas.org/content/118/4/e2025750118.short). *PNAS, 118*(4).

Music seems to have medical benefits. Musical treatment might alleviate pain, and help delirium patients and those suffering from Parkinson's. 

Early studies of music therapy were not necessarily "scientific" in the sense that many of them were not properly blind trials. Right now, there are some ongoing studies funded by NIH.
 

## 2021-01-30

1. Skimmed through the rest of [Fienberg (2006)](https://projecteuclid.org/download/pdf_1/euclid.ba/1340371071). Too difficult for me to grasp now. 

2. [Should You Go To Grad School?](https://www.buzzfeed.com/duncanwatts/should-you-go-to-grad-school) by Duncan Watts

1/4 on 2021-01-30 (completed on 2021-01-31, but not at the APAD time period)

## 2021-01-29

1. Finished West et al. (2013)

Representation of women increased in general: in published academic papers from 1665-1989, 15.1% of the authors were women. This number increased to 27.2% for papers from 1990-2012. 

Figure 3 shows that the percentage of women as first authors increased but they are much less likely than men to be the last authors.

2. Fienberg, S. E. (2006). [When did Bayesian inference become" Bayesian"?](https://projecteuclid.org/download/pdf_1/euclid.ba/1340371071). *Bayesian analysis, 1*(1), 1-40.

PP. 1-2

## 2021-01-28

1. Zhao, Z. D., Yang, Z., Zhang, Z., Zhou, T., Huang, Z. G., & Lai, Y. C. (2013). [Emergence of scaling in human-interest dynamics](https://www.nature.com/articles/srep03472). *Scientific reports, 3*(1), 1-7.

I skimmed through it. 

2. West, J. D., Jacquet, J., King, M. M., Correll, S. J., & Bergstrom, C. T. (2013). [The role of gender in scholarly authorship](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0066212). *PloS one, 8*(7), e66212.

PP. 1-3


## 2021-01-27

Dodds, P. S., Muhamad, R., & Watts, D. J. (2003). An experimental study of search in global social networks. *Science, 301*(5634), 827-829.

- 98,847 people registered to participate in a "global search" task. They were to reach the person assigned to them via email. To do so, they were asked to relay the message to people they think are "closer" to their target. Receivers of the relayed message were asked to do the same thing. 18 targets were from the US, Estonia, Indian, Australia and Norway. 

- 61,168 people from 166 countries relayed the message, generating 24,163 message chains. More than half of these people were middle class and college educated North Americans. (Background information: the study was published in 2003.)

- Two reasons stood out when people were asked why they sent a message to specific receipients: geographical proximity, and similar occupation. 

- Hubs were not important for success of searches.

- Weak ties are important. 

- It is important that people have incentives to proceed or confidence in the search; otherwise, it's difficult to reach the target.  

## 2021-01-26 (Completed on 2021-01-27)

Finished Zhang et al. (2006)

E-learning with non-interactive videos did not allow students to score higher or to experience more satisfaction than that without video at all. This means that to make the best of e-learning, interactivity in videos is necessary. 

Examples of interactivity: the ability to see slides alongside instructional videos; to control the scroll bar of videos; to take notes while watching the video; keyword search of the slides; etc. 

## 2021-01-25

1. Finished Mei (2014)

2. Ross, J., Irani, L., Silberman, M. S., Zaldivar, A., & Tomlinson, B. (2010). [Who are the crowdworkers? Shifting demographics in Mechanical Turk](https://d1wqtxts1xzle7.cloudfront.net/43592369/Who_are_the_crowdworkers_shifting_demogr20160310-18708-cv9zu3.pdf?1457633224=&response-content-disposition=inline%3B+filename%3DWho_are_the_crowdworkers.pdf&Expires=1611618299&Signature=GSdKfyzUVPe0B17iNsnrzPJSegBUu4xxMLTWCebwK2IzBgCWTgwUO~TG415-PM7UNMbUuWdjc3Ng8ISS7~h1PQL~OvtsqaF23PWqV0gSxa63N-RejLrj48LeF5n3aQ3T3BZTS-SGLgzxMzKvqB0rT9m-zRA~7ozd-~sVegU2LWwoeEWMBvYZLAtk2-zy3516J1vyhZl5GvRqZjOsSIvtd4H~GXL-fKkr2e5n0dEnwllPfF2OgIKYcLns68lKxWa7yMCHXeAvPzvTdyPlB5nbbXN-sZ2oANxLr6GzkjvxAzMbYeQR4E~2MGpgutPrsUs3chQ5fgDSE-f7BdH8S4TGVw__&Key-Pair-Id=APKAJLOHF5GGSLRBV4ZA). In *CHI'10 extended abstracts on Human factors in computing systems* (pp. 2863-2872).

3. Zhang, D., Zhou, L., Briggs, R. O., & Nunamaker Jr, J. F. (2006). [Instructional video in e-learning: Assessing the impact of interactive video on learning effectiveness](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378720605000170?casa_token=SDbKo_-6K_oAAAAA:XFgAlkvzC-fZ5Ti1pwaVhashhqrTH0O44B7XfZEitDUEipSGtkHGT5Hsacqu4ifbQ6FJpj6TZg). *Information & management, 43*(1), 15-27.

PP. 1-4

## 2021-01-24

1. Finished Miao et al. (draft)

2. Mei, H. (2014). [Women's property within the structure of marriage in the Neo-Babylonian Period](https://search.proquest.com/openview/6654abfcb1812c734d3f96ff87d0ac88/1?pq-origsite=gscholar&cbl=237823). *Journal of Sino-Western Communications, 6*(2), 153.

PP. 1-8

## 2021-01-23

Miao, L., Murray, D., Jung, W-S., Lariviere, V., Sugimoto, C., & Ahn, Y-Y. (draft). The Universal structure of national scientific development

- Compared to 1973-1977, countries in the world during 2013-2017 are more specialized in one of three research clusters (Natural, Physical, and Societal). This means that most countries' scientific research is becoming less diversified. 

- The scientific diversity of a country highly correlates with its GDP. 

- Scientific diversity is very predictive of future economic growth of a country; more so than Economic Complexity Index (ECI). 

PP. 1-18. 

## 2021-01-22

Finished Alessandretti et al. (2020)

The authors proposed a model: "container model". This model, if given the trajectories of an individual, can infer the hierarchical levels of the mobility traces, and the size of each level. Based on the mobility traces of more than 700K people, the authors found that the mobility of these people has four hierarchical levels. This means that day-to-day human mobilty is not scale-free. However, when we aggregate displacements across containers (I do not fully understand what this means, though), human mobility is scale-free. 

Fig. 2 shows that container models does a much better job than other models in predicting mobility traces. 

{{<block class="reminder">}}
I do have a question, and this is partly because this article is too technical for me: if we can infer the results in Fig. 2 from **real** data, what is the use of this container model, which has to feed on **real** data?
{{<end>}}

## 2021-01-21

1. Zhang, R. (2017). [The stress-buffering effect of self-disclosure on Facebook: An examination of stressful life events, social support, and mental health among college students](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0747563217303643?casa_token=JdvXJVVAWoUAAAAA:NJuSV64wLomjzXcTS7oXdpvdx8GTaGVmOJE6s9iSGzzeEbZRtV2EKer9KRR1-lgschogVYckpQ). *Computers in Human Behavior, 75*, 527-537.

560 surveyed undergraduate students in Hong Kong tend to open up when in stress and their self-disclosure on Facebook moderates the relationship between stress and mental health. Facebook disclosure seems to be positively related to decreased depression. 

2. Alessandretti, L., Aslak, U., & Lehmann, S. (2020). [The scales of human mobility](https://sci-hub.st/10.1038/s41586-020-2909-1). *Nature, 587*(7834), 402-407.

PP. 1-2

## 2021-01-20

Piwowar, H., Priem, J., Larivière, V., Alperin, J. P., Matthias, L., Norlander, B., ... & Haustein, S. (2018). [The state of OA: a large-scale analysis of the prevalence and impact of Open Access articles](https://peerj.com/articles/4375/?utm_source=TrendMD&utm_campaign=PeerJ_TrendMD_0&utm_medium=TrendMD). *PeerJ, 6*, e4375.

- What is the share of open access journal articles

   Around 27.9% of all articles with a DOI. Recent articles are more likely to be open access (See [Fig. 2B](https://peerj.com/articles/4375/#fig-2)). 

- Open access articles received 18% more citation than if it were not open access. This is only correlation, not causation. It might well be that authors only made their most impactful work open access. 

## 2021-01-19

1. Skimmed through the rest of Ogden et al. (2014)

Key findings: Obesity has been prevelent among American youths and adults from 2003 to 2012. No significant changes in the prevelence were found. This means that obesity is still a problem for the United States. 

2. Blumenstock, J., Cadamuro, G., & On, R. (2015). Predicting poverty and wealth from mobile phone metadata. *Science, 350*(6264), 1073-1076.

The authors got access to detailed cell records data of 1.5 million subscribers in Rwanda. They did a phone survey involving 856 individuals, who were among the 1.5 million subscribers. The authors built a model that can predict an individual's wealth based on these 856 individuals' answers and their cell records. The authors used this model to predict the wealth of Rwanda by district and found that it very well matched the actual wealth index as computed from a national survey of over 10k households in Rwanda. 

The authors argued that administering a national survey is very slow and costly. Predicting wealth from cell phone data is fast and relatively cheap. This method is accessible because a considerable number of people in developing countries are using cell phones now. 

## 2021-01-18

1. Finished Bail et al. (2018)

2. Ogden, C. L., Carroll, M. D., Kit, B. K., & Flegal, K. M. (2014). [Prevalence of childhood and adult obesity in the United States, 2011-2012](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/articlepdf/1832542/joi140013.pdf). *Jama, 311*(8), 806-814.

PP. 1-4

## 2021-01-17

Bail, C. A., Argyle, L. P., Brown, T. W., Bumpus, J. P., Chen, H., Hunzaker, M. F., ... & Volfovsky, A. (2018). Exposure to opposing views on social media can increase political polarization. *PNAS, 115*(37), 9216-9221.

Does exposure to social media increase or decrease belief polarization? This study tries to answer this question via a field experiment lasting for one and a half months on Twitter. The authors hired a company to recruit Twitter users who identify themselves as Republicans and Democrats. 1652 people participated in the study (901 Democrats and 751 Republicans). 

Later, participants were invited to follow a Twitter bot that would retweet 24 messages/day for a month. The bot were designed to retweet counterattitudinal messages to the participants, i.e., Democrats would be assigned to a conservative bot and Republicans to a liberal bot. Participants did not know what types of bots they were going to be assigned to. Among those invited to follow a bot, 64.9% of Democrats and 57.2% of Republicans accepted the invitation. 

[Fig. 1](https://www.pnas.org/content/pnas/115/37/9216/F1.large.jpg) provides an excellent summary of the experiment procedure. 

Results: Treated Democrats became slightly more liberal but the effects were not statistically significant. Republicans became significantly more conservative posttreatment. 

PP. 1-5

## 2021-01-16 (completed on 2021-01-17)

Finished Park et al. (2021)

- Social networks of those following pages of Places of Worship, Community Amenities, Bars and Pubs, Indoor Recreation, and Performing Arts had two types of members: core members who are closely connected with each other, and other members who are loosely-connected. This is called a "core-periphery structure". A network with this structure indicates that there are "regulars" who visit the place often. Non-regulars tend to be friends of a "regular". 

- The fact that people do similar things in two places does not mean that the two social networks have more similarities. For example, the friendship network of Bars and Pubs is closer to that of Community Amenities than to that of Restaurants. 

## 2021-01-15 (completed on 2021-01-16)

1. Finished Fire, M., & Guestrin, C. (2019).

2. Park, J., State, B., Bhole, M., Bailey, M., & Ahn, Y-Y. (2021). [People, Places, and Ties: Landscape of social places and their social network structures](https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.04737). arXiv.

The authors treated Facebook Pages as physical "third places" and studied the network structure of these Pages' followers. They found networks of those following pages of Outdoor Recreation, Indoor Recreation, Restaurant, Parks and Monuments had many independent dyads and triads. This indicates that people visit these places in small groups and they tend to be existing friends. 


## 2021-01-14 (completed on 2021-01-15)

Continued with Fire, M., & Guestrin, C. (2019).

### Publication trends

- The use of question or exclamation marks in paper titles is increasing (< 1% in 1950 to >3% in 2013).

- The percentage of papers with authors listed in an alphabetical order more than halved, from 21.0% in 1950 to 43.5% in 2014.

- Paper abstracts are getting longer, from a mean of 116.3 words in 1970 to 179.8 words in 2014.

- Self-citation: both the number of self-citations and the percentage of papers containing self-citations increased. 

- The mean and median length of academic papers decreased: 14.4 pages in 1950, 10.1 in 1990, and 8.4 in 2014. 

### Author trends

- Early-career scientists now are publishing more papers but are less likely to be the first authors, compared to those decades ago. 

### Journal trends

- Both the number of journals and the number of papers published per journal each year increased. 

- For papers in top journals, the mean career age of first and last authors and the percentage of returning authors increased. 

### Discussions

- The majority of the observed changes mentioned above are correlated with more academic citations. 

{{<block reminder>}}
Here, the two authors said that "These results support our hypothesis that the citation number has become a target." 

I am a little bit doubtful of this conclusion. Although it seems true instinctively, it does call for casual data. I do not think they can reach this conclusion only by observing a correlation between the discussed trends and the number of citations. 
{{<end>}}

## 2021-01-13

Continued with Fire, M., & Guestrin, C. (2019).

- Changes in scientific publication:
   3. Author lists are getting longer, i.e., "hyperauthorship", from a mean of 1.41 authors in 1900 to a mean fo 4.51 authors in 2014. 
   4. Paper titles lengths are increasing.
   5. Reference lists are getting longer. Few papers had over 20 references back in 1960 but now it is common to have papers with more than 40 references. 

### Material

As mentioned before, MAG (Microsoft Academic Graph) was used. The MAG dataset contains 120.7 million papers but many of them are news papers, comments, and responses. The two authors filtered these out, analyzing only around 22 million papers that have a DOI and at least five references. Only authors of these 22 million papers were analyzed. 

The authors of this paper also used the AMiner open academic graph dataset, which is relatively new.

### Results

- Table 1 clearly shows that papers' median citations after 5 years of publication vary considerably across different fields and subfields. 

- Fig.1 shows how the number of papers has been increasing.

PP. 2-6

## 2021-01-12

Fire, M., & Guestrin, C. (2019). [Over-optimization of academic publishing metrics: observing Goodhart’s Law in action](https://academic.oup.com/gigascience/article/8/6/giz053/5506490). *GigaScience, 8*(6), giz053.

- What have been increasing: 
  - number of published papers yearly (from fewer than 1 million in 1980 to more than 7 million in 2014)
  - speed of sharing papers (researchers can share their studies via non-traditional channels such as preprint servers)
  - number of peer-reviewed journals
  - number of published researchers

- What haven't been changed for decades: measures of scientific success (number of publications, impact factor, h-index)

- Goodhart's Law: 

> When a measure becomes a target, it ceases to be a good measure

- **Study Material**: The two authors of this paper analyzed over 120 million published papers with 528 million references and 35 million authors, since the early 1800s. The data came from the Microsoft Academic Graph (MAG) dataset. 

- **Study Purpose**: Are researchers focusing on attaining success metrics rather than the quality of research?

- Changes in scientific publication:
  1. Popularity of preprint servers such as arXiv, bioRxiv, SSRN, and RePEc
  2. Mega-journals that value scientific trustworthiness rather than novelty. Prime examples are *PloS One* and *Scientific Reports*.

PP. 1-2.

## 2021-01-11

Finished Yin et al. (2021)

- Scientific papers that appeared in policy documents received on average 40 times more citations from other scientific papers than those not found in policy documents. This indicates that papers referenced in government policy documents were also well received and respected in the scientific community. 

- Although preprint servers (medRxiv, bioRxiv, and SSRN) released much more papers on the COVID-19, papers published in peer-reviewed journals appeared more frequently in policy documents. See Fig. 2.3. 

- Policy documents grounded in rigorous scientific findings received more citations from other policy documents. 

- National governments produced more policy documents than think tanks and intergovernmental organizations (IGOs), but they cited science the least. IGOs, especially WHO, used science the most. 

I like this paper. Short and practical. It uses inferential statistics sparingly, so its findings seem more robust to me. 


## 2021-01-10

1. Finished Myers et al. (2020)

2. Yin, Y., Gao, J., Jones, B., & Wang, D. (2021). [Coevolution of policy and science during the pandemic](https://science.sciencemag.org/content/371/6525/128/). *Science*

- The growth of the share of COVID-19 policy documents mirrored that of total confirmed cases of COVID-19.

- In the beginning, COVID-19 policy documents were mostly about science & health. Later, the share of topics related to science & health fell whereas that of those regarding the societal and economical impacts of the pandemic grew. This pattern remained for other types of policy documents. 

- 20% of all the scientific papers cited in COVID-19 policy documents were those uploaded or published in 2020. 

- COVID-19 policy documents cited biomedical literature in the beginning of the pandemic. Later, the share of papers in the fields of economy, society and others grew. 

PP. 1-2

## 2021-01-09

1. Continued with Frank et al. (2019)

To better predict the impact of AI on the labor market, we need better data collection which is detailed, reflects real-time changes in the market, and contains regional differences. 

2. Myers, K. R., Tham, W. Y., Yin, Y., Cohodes, N., Thursby, J. G., Thursby, M. C., ... & Wang, D. (2020). Unequal effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on scientists. *Nature human behaviour, 4*(9), 880-883.

- On average, working hours of scientists dropped from 61h/w pre-pandemic to 54h post-pandemic (April 2020)

- Bench scientists, such as those working on biochemistry, biology, chemistry, and chemical engineering, saw the biggest declines (around 30% - 40%) in research time. By contrast, mathematicians, statisticians, computer scientists, and economists, had the lowest decline in research time. 

- Female scientists with young children have much less time for research during the pandemic. 

PP. 1-3

## 2020-01-08

Frank, M. R., Autor, D., Bessen, J. E., Brynjolfsson, E., Cebrian, M., Deming, D. J., ... & Rahwan, I. (2019). Toward understanding the impact of artificial intelligence on labor. *PNAS, 116*(14), 6531-6539.

People have always had concerns over the negative effects of automation and machines, from Plato worrying about writing displacing memory, to Wassily Leontief, winner of the Nobel Prize in Economics of 1973 had the concern that machines will displace human labor. 

PP. 1-3

## 2021-01-07

### Aim of the study
To explain why success in the cultural market is different from average performance and yet very difficult to anticipate even for experts. 

### Study design:

- 14,341 participants were recruited from a teen-interest website. They were randomly assigned to two conditions (independent vs. social influence) and rated 48 songs by different bands. 
  - In the independent condition, participants were only shown the name of the bands and the songs. After listening to a song, they were asked to rate it; the rating ranged from 1 to 5. After rating, they were given the choice to download the song, although they were not required to do so. 

  - In the social influence condition, participants also saw how many times a song has been downloaded by previous participants. 

  - There were eight "worlds" to which participants in the social influence condition were assigned to. Each world is parallel to each other, meaning that the number of downloads in one world does not affect other worlds. 

- The authors of this paper conducted two experiments. 

  - In experiment 1, 48 songs were presented in a `$16 \times 3$` grid where the order of the songs was random. In experiment 1, participants in the social condition saw the number of downloads along with the name of the band whereas participants in the independent condition did not see this information. 

  - In experiment 2, songs were presented in a single column. For participants in the social condition in experiment 2, the songs were shown in descending order of current downloaded counts, whereas the order was random for participants in the independent condition in experiment 2. 

  - Why did the authors conduct two experiments? Through this design, in each experiment, the authors can see the effects of social influence on the success of each song. Furthermore, they can see the effect of increased "strength" of related information signals (i.e., downloaded numbers) by comparing the results of two experiments (for the social influence condition). 

### Results

Social influence, i.e., information about the choice of others, contributed to both **inequality** and **unpredictability** of the songs. 

  - [Fig. 1](https://science.sciencemag.org/content/sci/311/5762/854/F1.large.jpg) shows that there is more inequality when social influence is present. This is because, as we can see, the dark bars are consistently taller than the light bars. It also shows that increased level of social influence leads to increased level of inequality. 

  - Fig. 2 shows that as social influence increases, it becomes more unpredictable to tell whether a song turns out to be good or bad. 


## 2021-01-06

1. Finished Gelman, A., & Loken, E. (2013).

2. Salganik, M. J., Dodds, P. S., & Watts, D. J. (2006). Experimental study of inequality and unpredictability in an artificial cultural market. science, 311(5762), 854-856.

Finished reading but need to re-read it to recap the main steps & findings. 

## 2021-01-05

Continued with Gelman, A., & Loken, E. (2013).

>The researchers are not trying multiple tests to see which has the best p-value; rather, they are using their scientific common sense to formulate their hypotheses in a reasonable way, given the data they have. The mistake is in thinking that, if the particular path that was chosen yields statistical significance, that this is strong evidence in favor of the hypothesis. 

>... The result remains, as we have written elsewhere, a sort of machine for producing and publicizing random patterns. 

PP. 5-13

## 2021-01-04

1. Finished Lu et al. (2016)

- In individualism-oriented countries, expressing happiness is encouraged whereas expressing sadness is not. 

> It would be interesting to explore whether emojis can be leveraged to predict public opinions and sentiment of a country. 

- Brazilian users have similar emoji usage patterns to those in South America, whereas they differ from users in Portugal even if the two nations speak the same language. 

> ...whether emojis are really consistent with sentiments presented in texts. 

2. Gelman, A., & Loken, E. (2013). [The garden of forking paths: Why multiple comparisons can be a problem, even when there is no “fishing expedition” or “p-hacking” and the research hypothesis was posited ahead of time](https://osf.io/n3axs/download). Department of Statistics, Columbia University.

PP. 1-5

## 2021-01-03

Continued with Lu et al. (2016)

- Top 20 emojis are related to face, heart and hand, which implies that facial expressions and body signals are the most important when people express themselves through emojis.

- The frequency of emoji usage has a power-law distribution. 😂 is by far the most popular emoji, accounting for 15.4% of the total emoji usage.

- France stands out because 1) 19.8 of all messages sent using the Kika keyboard by French users contained at least on emoji; and 2) the most commonly used emoji is ❤️‍. How romantic!

PP. 2-9

## 2021-01-02

1. Finished Palchykov et al. (2012). 

I really like this study. The methodology is clear, visualizations informative, and conclusions easy to understand. 

2. Lu, X., Ai, W., Liu, X., Li, Q., Wang, N., Huang, G., & Mei, Q. (2016, September). Learning from the ubiquitous language: an empirical analysis of emoji usage of smartphone users. In *Proceedings of the 2016 ACM International Joint Conference on Pervasive and Ubiquitous Computing* (pp. 770-780).

PP. 1-2

## 2021-01-01

Palchykov, V., Kaski, K., Kertész, J., Barabási, A. L., & Dunbar, R. I. (2012). [Sex differences in intimate relationships](https://www.nature.com/articles/srep00370?message-global=remove&viewType=Print&viewClass=Print). *Scientific reports, 2*(1), 1-5.

PP. 1-3