---
title: "February, 2021"
date: 2021-02-17T16:57:38-05:00
author: Hongtao Hao
slug: 2021-02
draft: false
toc: true
---

## 2021-02-26

Kim, Y. S., Hofman, J. M., & Goldstein, D. G. (2020). Effectively Communicating Effect Sizes. In *Proceedings of the 2020 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI’20). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA.*

- Outcome uncertainty is more useful for individuals than inferential uncertainty. The former is predicting what an individual outcome is likely to be, whereas the latter one shows the average for a large group. It might well be that the group with a larger mean has more variability, whereas the other group (with a smaller mean) is more reliable. Wise people will choose the second rather than the first.

   - Cohen's *d*, expressed as `$d = \frac{\mu_1 - \mu_2}{\sigma}$`, conveys information about both the treatment effect and the variability in individual outcomes. 

- Probability of superiority: how often a randomly chosen individual in one group scores higher (or slower) than a randomly chosen individual in another group. 

PP. 1-3

## 2021-02-25

Finished Hofman et al. (2020)

- People tend to overestimate the effect size and understated the variability in outcomes when presented 95% confidence intervals that show *inferential* uncertainty, compared to when presented 95% prediction intervals that show *outcome* uncertainty. 

  For example, suppose we are comparing heights of men with those of women: 

    - *Inferential* uncertaity is how confident we are about our estimation of **each group's average height**, based on **our measurement**. So error bars will extend 1.96 (sometimes 1.0) *standard error* above and below the mean. 

    - *Outcome* uncertainty is the variability of **each individual's height around their group's mean**. Therefore, error bars will extend 1.96 (sometimes 1.0) *standard deviation* above and below the mean. 

  See Fig. 1 for illustration. 

- People have the largest misperceptions when the effect size is small. Unfortunately, small effect sizes are the norm in scientific studies, which use 95% CI more often than 95% PI. This indicates that readers are likely to exaggerate the scientific results they encounter. 

{{<block class="note">}}
I like this study pretty much. It's a little long but worth the reading. 
{{<end>}}

## 2021-02-24

Contined with Hofman et al. (2020)

PP. 4-7

## 2021-02-23

Hofman, J. M., Goldstein, D. G., & Hullman, J. (2020, April). [How visualizing inferential uncertainty can mislead readers about treatment effects in scientific results](http://jakehofman.com/pdfs/visualizing-inferential-uncertainty.pdf). In *Proceedings of the 2020 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems* (pp. 1-12).

PP. 1-4

## 2021-02-22

Hao, K. (2019). [We analyzed 16,625 papers to figure out where AI is headed next](https://www.technologyreview.com/2019/01/25/1436/we-analyzed-16625-papers-to-figure-out-where-ai-is-headed-next/). *MIT Technology Review*. 

Artificial intelligence is powered by deep learning, which are algorithms that use statistics to identify patterns in data. This capability enables computers to mimick human skills, and to provide recommendations to users (for example, in Google, Facebook, and Netflix).

Papers in arXiv's artificial intelligence section focused on machine learning in around 1995-2005, on neural networks in around 2010-2015, and on reinforcement learning in around 2015-2019. 

Before around 2005, papers in arXiv's AI section focused on "knowledge-based reasoning", trying to recreate human seasoning using man-made rules. After around 2005, the attention changed to machine learning, which is a parent term that includes deep learning. Rather than writing rules, machine learning trains computer programs to extract rules from a sea of data.

Besides neural networks, there are other machine learning methods, for example, "bayesian networks", "markov methods", and "support vector machines", but nueral networks dominated the playground since around 2016. 

Three types of machine learning: supervised, unsupervised, and reinforcement learning. Reinforcement learning wasn't a new idea, but it didn't gain much momentum until AlphaGo's groundbreaking success.

## 2021-02-21

Continued with Kim et al. (2020)

## 2021-02-20

Continued with Kim et al. (2020)

People overestimated both error and variance of effect size when only told the mean differences. 95% confidence intervals with visualizations led to the largested overestimation, as shown in Figure 2. Presending the mean differences in absolute or percentage terms, or simply telling people difference exists, made people overestimate the effect size as well, but to a lesser degree.

Informing people the variability helped alleviate this issue, with directly telling people the probablity of superiority performing the best (although the difference did not reach statistical significance).

{{<block class="reminder">}}
I do not really understand this paper. Will come back later. 
{{<end>}}


## 2021-02-19 (completed on 2021-02-20)

Kim, Y. S., Hofman, J. M., & Goldstein, D. G. (2020). [Effectively Communicating Effect Sizes](https://cj2021.northeastern.edu/files/2020/02/CJ_2020_paper_7.pdf). In *[Computation + Journalism Symposium 2021](https://cj2021.northeastern.edu/)*. 

PP 1-4


## 2021-02-18

Completed Sekara et al. (2018)

- As Fig. 1(B) shows, the percentage of publications in both *Nature* and *Physical Review D* by new PIs have been deceasing in the past two decades. The figure also shows that different types of journals have different patterns regarding the share of papers by different categories of PIs. 

- Chaperone effect `$C$` is measured as

   `$$ c / c_random $$`

   where `$c$` is the ratio of **the number of authors who became last authors from nonlast authors** to **the number of those who never made this transition**. `$c_random$` is the same ratio but in a system where the order of authors is randomly permuted. This randomnization is necessary if we want to compare the chaperone effect of different scientific fields. If we measure chaperone effect by `$c$` rather than `$C$`, we fail to consider the fact that `$c$` might be influenced by individual productivity, team size, or simply random factors. 

   If `$C$` is larger one 1, then the chaperone effect exists. 

- Fig. 2 shows that the chaperone effect is strongest in interdisciplinary fields, biology, and medicine, and weakest in Mathematics. 

- An interesting question to ask is whose papers have more impacts, those by new PIs, or those by chaperoned and established PIs. The authors assumed that those by new PIs have more impact because it is difficult to publish in a journal, say, in *Nature*, if you didn't have a pubication record there. However, results show that papers by established and chaperoned PIs receive more citations. 

- The chaperone effect is stronger in prestigious, interdisciplinary journals with a general audience than in field-specific journals. 

## 2021-02-17 (completed on 2021-02-18)

Sekara, V., Deville, P., Ahnert, S. E., Barabási, A. L., Sinatra, R., & Lehmann, S. (2018). The chaperone effect in scientific publishing. *PNAS, 115*(50), 12603-12607.

- Three kinds of principle investigators (PIs, last author in a paper):
  
  1. New PIs have never published in a specific journal.
  2. Chaperoned PIs have published in a journal previously as nonlast authors.
  3. Established PIs have published in a journal before as last authors. 

## 2021-02-16 (completed on 2021-02-17)

Continued with Strother et al. (2021)

Understanding the methodology:

- Whether students' political ideology changed significantly: compare the ideology score in [Table 1](https://www.pnas.org/content/118/2/e2015514117#T1) using a two-tailed *t* test. 

- Whether roommoates' ideology predicted students' ideology changes: using OLS regressions with roommates' ideology at wave 1 as the independent variable, students' ideology at wave 2 as the dependent variable, and students ideology at wave 1 as the control variable. The authors also included other control variables in different models, as can be seen in [Table 3](https://www.pnas.org/content/118/2/e2015514117#T3). The range of *p* values was (0.012, 0.069). The association is significant, was its effect size is small. 

{{<block class="reminder">}}
I did not understand the method which focuses on "students assigned to roommates who had different baseline political views" (P. 4)

Will come back to review later. 
{{<end>}}

## 2021-02-15 (completed on 2021-02-16)

Strother, L., Piston, S., Golberstein, E., Gollust, S. E., & Eisenberg, D. (2021). College roommates have a modest but significant influence on each other’s political ideology. *PNAS, 118*(2).

- Table 1 shows that first-year college students tend to be liberal (compared to conservative), which is consistent with common understanding. However, contrary to popular claims, after the first year, these stendents became a little bit more **conservative**, rather than libral. 

- Living with a roommate of different ideology has statistically influence on students' ideology change (moved closer to their roommnates).

PP. 1-4

## 2021-02-14

Finished Kubin et al. (2021)

- Perceptions of rationality mediated the relationship between stance based on personal experiences and increased respect. 

- When someone disagrees with you on topics related to morality or politics, he or she has more doubts about your argument if it is based on facts (compared to personal experiences).

## 2021-02-13

Kubin, E., Puryear, C., Schein, C., & Gray, K. (2021). [Personal experiences bridge moral and political divides better than facts](https://www.pnas.org/content/118/6/e2008389118.full). *PNAS, 118*(6).

- People who base their viewpoints on personal experiences (rather than on facts) are considered more rational and are respected more by the opponents. Opponents are also more willing to interact with them. 

- To increase perceived rationality, personal experiences are better to be relevant, and harm-based. 

- To foster respect, personal experiences are better to be "personal". 

PP. 1-4

## 2021-02-12

Gates, A., Gysi, D., Kellis, M., & Barabási, A. L. (2021). [A wealth of discovery built on the Human Genome Project — by the numbers](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-021-00314-6). *Nature*.

   - 22% of publications on genes referenced only 1% of all genes. This might be due to **preferential attachment** ("rich-gets-richer"). Risk-averse researchers and funders might have been afraid of exploring uncharted territories. 

   - Complexity laies in the interactions of individual components. Understanding components is necessary, but not sufficient, to know a system. 

## 2021-02-11

Schulz, L., Rollwage, M., Dolan, R. J., & Fleming, S. M. (2020). [Dogmatism manifests in lowered information search under uncertainty](https://www.pnas.org/content/117/49/31527.full). *PNAS, 117*(49), 31527-31534.

I did not really understand the details of this paper. That said, the conclusion is clear:

Dogmatic individuals are less likely to seek out additional information, especially when their initial decisions are uncertain. This is worrisome because after dogmatic people encounter fake news, they are less likely to seek out correcting pieces. 

## 2021-02-10

Choi, S. H., Rao, V. D., Gernat, T., Hamilton, A. R., Robinson, G. E., & Goldenfeld, N. (2020). [Individual variations lead to universal and cross-species patterns of social behavior](https://www.pnas.org/content/117/50/31754). *PNAS, 117*(50), 31754-31759.

I could not understand the details in this paper. 

## 2021-02-09

Finished Killingsworth (2020)

- As can be seen in [Fig. 1](https://www.pnas.org/content/pnas/118/4/e2016976118/F1.large.jpg), both current happiness (experienced well-being) and remembered happiness (evaluative well-being) grow linearly with **log(income)**, **without a plateau**. 

- Larger household income below $80,000 had a stronger correlation with decreased negative feelings compared to people having household income above $80,000. Positive feelings grow evenly aross the income range. 

- Sense of control of one's life explained 74% of the relationship between income and experienced well-being. 

- People having smaller household income were happier if they attributed less importance to money; Those who earn a lot were happier if they attributed more importance to moeny. 

- Across the income range, the more people equated money and success, the less happier they felt. 

- The main difference of this study is that 1) respondents responded in real time when they saw the prompts from the app; 2) happiness was measured using a continuous rather than dichotomous scale. 

I like this study. 

{{<block class="note">}}
See [this](https://lindeloev.net/new-pnas-paper-income-is-a-poor-way-to-improve-well-being/) criticism.
{{<end>}}

## 2021-02-08

1. Finished Stockard et al. (2021)

- Non-URM (underrepresented minorities) men reported the greatest professional support from peers and postdocs, followed by non-URM women. 

- URM students were twice as likely to report that they did not receive enough financial support for living. 

- Men were more likely than women to express greater commitment to completing the PhD and continuing research in the chemistry field. **Amazingly, within each gender group, URM students were more likely to do so.**

- When we do not consider other factors, students having a supportive advisor were more likely to finish the PhD, find a postdoc, and have an academic career at a research institute. However, this positive effect on women is not found in bigger and more renowned chemistry departments. 

2. Killingsworth, M. A. (2021). Experienced well-being rises with income, even above $75,000 per year. *PNAS, 118*(4).

PP. 1-2

## 2021-02-07

1. Finished Chen at el. (2020)

I skimmed through the rest of this paper. 

2. Stockard, J., Rohlfing, C. M., & Richmond, G. L. (2021). Equity for women and underrepresented minorities in STEM: Graduate experiences and career plans in chemistry. *PNAS, 118*(4).

- Women who are underrepresented minorities (URM) were the least satisfied with their advisor-student relationship. Other women were the next least satisfied. URM men were were the most satisfied with the relationship. 

PP. 1-3

## 2021-02-06

Chen, Y., Jiang, M., & Kesten, O. (2020). [An empirical evaluation of Chinese college admissions reforms through a natural experiment](https://www.pnas.org/content/117/50/31696.full). *PNAS, 117*(50), 31696-31705.

PP. 1-5

## 2021-02-05

Finished Sterling et al. (2020)

### Results

- Prior to graduation, the level of self-efficacy of women is lower than that of men.

- Without considering any other factors, self-efficacy is positively related to salary in initial jobs. 

- For engineering and CS undergraduates, in their first jobs after they graduate, women's salaries are lower than men's. 

- Gender does not predict how important salary is important to a person. 

- Women do emphasize workplace culture more, but this emphasis is associated with higher rather than lower compensation. 

- Self-efficacy is a significant mediator for the relationship between being female and the salary. (See [Figure S5](https://www.pnas.org/content/pnas/suppl/2020/11/11/2010269117.DCSupplemental/pnas.2010269117.sapp.pdf))

- Self-efficacy influences whether a person intends to enter jobs related to engineering and computer science. 


## 2021-02-04

Sterling, A. D., Thompson, M. E., Wang, S., Kusimo, A., Gilmartin, S., & Sheppard, S. (2020). The confidence gap predicts the gender pay gap among STEM graduates. *PNAS, 117*(48), 30303-30308.

This paper investigates why there is a gender pay gap among STEM graduates. They hypothesized that engineering self-efficacy (ESE) is the reason. To test this hypothesis, they surveyed 559 college students majoring in engineering and computer science in 2015 (when students are still enrolled in the program), 2016, and later in 2017 when students just graduated and entered the workforce. 

### Theories 

Two possible reasons why women earn less: 1) women are socialized to believe money is not as important as family; 2) women prefer inclusive environments to competitive ones, with the latter more favorable to higher salaries. 


## 2021-02-03

Andrasfay, T., & Goldman, N. (2021). Reductions in 2020 US life expectancy due to COVID-19 and the disproportionate impact on the Black and Latino populations. *PNAS, 118*(5).

- The COVID-19 pandemic is projected to cause a decline in 2021 US life expectancy by 1.13 y. This decline is larger than that in other developed countries, which already had higher life expectancy than the US before the pandemic. 

- The reduction in life expectancy in the US is not the same for each racial group. The reduction for Black (2.10 y) and Latino (3.05 y) is much larger than that for Whites (0.68 y). 

- For Black and Latino populations, younger people face higher burden of mortality related to the COVID-19. This might be because their jobs are less compatible with remote working and therefore they have to expose themselves to virus to earn money during the pandemic. 

- These racial differences in reduction in life expectancy will result in 39% increase in the life expectancy gap between the Black population and Whites (from 3.6 y in 2017 to 5.06 y in 2020). The life expectancy advantage that Latino population has relative to Whites will decrease from 3.3 y in 2017 to 0.93 y in 2020, a 70% plunge.  

## 2021-02-02

Finished Luhrmann et al. (2021)

This study tries to answer **why some people are more likely than others to experience the presence of gods and spirits**. In four studies, the authors, possibly among others, interviewed and surveyed local residents having faith (in charismatic evangelical Christianity or the local religion) and urban undergraduate students in four places: US, Ghana, Thailand and China. 

The study found that **porosity** and **absorption** played distinct roles in people's spiritual experiences across different cultures and religions. 

**Porosity** is a cultural attribution that defines the boundary between "mind" and the "world". People living in cultures of different levels of porosity might different viewpoints on whether their mental experiences come from and have influences on, the outside world. 

**Absorption** is a personal tendency to be immersed in their own minds. 

## 2021-02-01

Luhrmann, T. M., Weisman, K., Aulino, F., Brahinsky, J. D., Dulin, J. C., Dzokoto, V. A., ... & Smith, R. E. (2021). Sensing the presence of gods and spirits across cultures and faiths. *PNAS, 118*(5).

PP. 1-4