---
title: Why Do So Many People Love Dr. Fauci
date: 2020-04-19
author: Hongtao Hao
draft: false
slag: dr-fauci
toc: false
---

When I saw the news that there is [a petition](https://www.change.org/p/people-magazine-make-dr-anthony-fauci-people-magazine-s-sexiest-man-alive) to name Dr. Anthony Fauci the sexiest man alive, I was puzzled. I have been hearing this name for a long time since the outbreak of COVID-19 in the United States, but have never seen his image and heard of him talking. 

Through pure serendipity, I came across [this video](https://fast.wistia.net/embed/iframe/8dhrem8gp3) of Mark Zuckerberg interviewing Dr. Fauci. I was amazed by how calm, confident, and knowledgebale Dr. Fauci is. Mark Zuckerber is clearly a celebrity and multi-billionnaire. I guess I will be super nervous if I could have a chance to have conversation with him. Also, Dr. Fauci should know that this video would probably be viewed by millions of people worldwide and yet he behaved so naturallly and was so knowledgeable throughout the interview. 

After reading Dr. Fauci's experience on Wikipedia, I understood why he could be so calm in front of Mack Zuckerberg and millions of future viewers. He will be eighty by the end of 2020 and has been serving as the director of NIAID at NIH for over thirty years. He has met President Bill Clinton, George W. Bush, Barack Obama, and, of course, Donald Trump. He has made considerable contributions to HIV/AIDS research and has helped save millions of lives in Africa.

After all those experiences, I guess he will not be nervous when talking with any celebrities. I guess he doesn't even care about how he would behave in front of cameras; all he cares about is, as he mentioned in [this interview](https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?title=File%3ADr_Anthony_Fauci-America%27s_Man_on_Infectious_Diseases-VoA.webm), whether he can deliver messages that can help people. 

From his achievements and his demeanor, I can imagine his dedication to his work. Oftentimes, you can feel a person's energy by observing how he behaves and looks. You might be able to deceive others by the words you say but never by how you look and behave. I will learn from his dedication and become fully devoted to what I love. 