---
title: "What on Earth is Entropy?"
date: 2022-09-21T15:33:20-05:00
author: "Hongtao Hao"
slug: entropy
draft: false
toc: false
tags: ML
---
## Understanding Bits, Bit by Bit

To understand entropy, we need to first understand bit. 

Let's play a game. Say we have four types of race cars:

  - Ferrari
  - Mclaren
  - Mercedes-Benz
  - Honda

You are facing the four cars. A friend is standing right next to you back to back. 

This is the rule of the game: Both you and your friend know there are four cars of different makes and both of you know these four makes. I will pick one car from the four, and you are asked to write down the type of the car on a piece of paper and hand it to your friend. Each letter or number you write will take up one square. **To win the game, you need to use (1) as few symbols as possible and (2) as few squares as possible**. We consider (1) first. If there are two teams and Team A uses more symbols than Team B, then no matter what's the difference between the two teams in the number of squares, Team B wins.  

Clearly, it's insufficient to write down the full name of a car make because it will (1) use many symbols and (2) take up many squares. To take up fewer squares, you might agree with your friend with this "map":

  - Ferrari: A
  - Mclaren: B
  - Mercedes-Benz: C
  - Honda: D

Whenever you write down 'A', your friend knows it's a Ferrari. However, this won't guarantee that you will win: you are using four symbols but other teams might use fewer symbols. 

The question now is, how many symbols do we need to communicate four names? Or any number of names? Clearly, one symbol is not enough as it can only represent one entity. Two symbols? Bingo! 

**Two symbols can represent as many entities as you want!**

You can use any two symbols, say, 'A'-'B', '&'-'%', '^'-")", etc. But the convention is to use 0 and 1. But how can we represent the above four car makes with only 0 and 1?

  - Ferrari: 00
  - Mclaren: 01
  - Mercedes-Benz: 10
  - Honda: 11

Is this the most efficient way? No. We can do this:

  - Ferrari: 0
  - Mclaren: 1
  - Mercedes-Benz: 00
  - Honda: 01

We define these two patterns as one bit: 
  - 0
  - 1

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X40ft1Lt1f0







