---

title: Re-Understanding Z Score
date: 2022-08-20
author: Hongtao Hao
slug: zscore
draft: false
toc: true
tags: ML

---

Ask anyone who has attended Stats101 and s/he will tell you that they understand Z-score. But, really? Could you answer the following questions without thinking?

1. What is the mean of z-scores?
2. What is the standard deviation of z-scores?
3. What is the sum of squared z-scores?
4. Is the z-score distribution the same as the original distribution of sample values?
5. What do z-scores above 0 mean?

If you cannot answer them without thinking, then you don't really understand z-scores. 

Next, let's gain a deeper understanding of z-scores by looking at the above questions. 

The above questions are from [this post](https://www.uth.tmc.edu/uth_orgs/educ_dev/oser/L1_6.HTM).

## What is z-score?

Z-score is also called the standard score. In a one-dimensional array, i.e., a vector, the z-score of a number within this array indicates the distance between this number and the expected value of this array, i.e., the mean, measured by the standard deviation of this array. 

`$$z = \frac{x_i - \mu}{\sigma}$$`

Where `$x_i$` is a number in an array, `$\mu$` is the mean of this array and `$\sigma$` is the standard deviation. 

Before we can calcuate z-scores,we need to calculate the mean and the standard deviation:


```python
import math 

def my_mean(array):
    return sum(array)/len(array)

def my_std(array):
    mn = my_mean(array)
    my_sum = 0
    for i in array:
        my_sum += (i - mn)**2
    return math.sqrt(my_sum/len(array))
```

<!-- While I was writing the function to calcuate the standard deviation, it came to me that the essence of standard deviation is **the expected absolute distance between an item in an array and the mean of this array**. 

How to understand it?

For example, you are given an array: `a = [1,4,6,8,10]`. Its mean is 5.8 -->


```python
# an example, 
a = [1,4,6,8,10]
my_mean(a)
```




    5.8




```python
my_std(a)
```




    3.1240998703626617




```python
def zscores(array):
    mn = my_mean(array)
    std = my_std(array)
    return [(i-mn)/std for i in array]
```


```python
z_scores = zscores(a)
z_scores
```




    [-1.5364425591947517,
     -0.5761659596980319,
     0.06401843996644804,
     0.7042028396309279,
     1.3443872392954077]



## The sum and the mean of z-scores

The sum, and the mean of z-scores are always zero. Why?

`$$\sum_{i=1}^n z_i = \sum_{i=1}^n \frac{x_i - \mu}{\sigma} = \frac{\sum_{i=1}^n (x_i - \mu)}{\sigma}$$`

We have:

`$$$$`

`$$\sum_{i=1}^n (x_i - \mu) = \sum_{i=1}^n x_i - n\cdot \mu$$`

Because 

`$$\mu = \frac{\sum_{i=1}^n x_i}{n}$$`

We have 

`$$\sum_{i=1}^n (x_i - \mu) = 0$$`

So the sum of z-scores is zero. When the sum is zero, the mean is of course zero as well. 

## The standard deviation of z-scores

Let's calculate the standard devitaiton of z-scores. 

`$$\sigma_z = \sqrt{\frac{\sum_{i=1}^n (z_i - E(z))^2}{n}}$$`

Because `$E(z) = 0$`, we have:

`$$\sigma_z = \sqrt{\frac{\sum_{i=1}^n (z_i)^2}{n}}$$`

This, in fact, leads to our third question:

## The sum of squared z-scores

`$$\sum_{i=1}^n (z_i)^2 = \sum_{i=1}^n \frac{(x_i - \mu)^2}{\sigma^2} = \frac{\sum_{i=1}^n (x_i - \mu)^2}{\sigma^2}$$`

Because 

`$$\sigma = \sqrt{\frac{\sum_{i=1}^n{(x_i - \mu)^2}}{n}}$$`

So we have

`$$\sigma^2 = \frac{\sum_{i=1}^n{(x_i - \mu)^2}}{n}$$`

Therefore

`$$\sum_{i=1}^n (z_i)^2 = n$$`

That is to say, **the sum of squared z-scores is the number of items in an array.**

Then, go back to the standard deviation of z-scores, we can know that

`$$\sigma_z = \sqrt{\frac{\sum_{i=1}^n (z_i)^2}{n}} = \sqrt{\frac{n}{n}} = 1$$`

## The distribution of z-scores

The distribution of z-scores is the same as the original array. I think of it this way: the z-scores are the result of original numbers moving leftward horizontally by `$\mu$` and squeezed vertically by `$\sigma$`. Because they all move together, their relative positions stay the same. And that's why their distributions are also the same. 

## The meaning of the sign of z-scores

From the formula of z-scores, we know that if a z-score is above zero, it means the corresponding number in the array is bigger than the mean of the array. If a z-scores is below zero, it means the corresponding number in the array is smaller than the mean. 
